# RSA_application

RSA application in Java.

This was my Honors Project for the Discrete Structures class. 

All files with the source code can be found in the folder "src"; an executable Jar file is in the folder "dist." Everything else is the files created by NetBeans.

The RSA application was built in Java with the use of MVC design and GUI. Doing RSA encryption/decryption in Java is not a straightforward task as it is in Python, for example. Python can easily handle huge numbers (aka hundreds of digits long) and doing computation with such big numbers in Python is trivial. In Java, however, it is not a case. In order to work with big numbers in Java, we need to use a special library - BigIntegers (yes, we are talking about huge integers, RSA doesn't use numbers with floating point).

The project was built using MVC design (a separation of model, view and controller) and uses GUI to provide a user friendly interface. Application window includes two tabs. On the first tab, there is a keys' generator which creates two set of keys. One set is a private key which is used for encryption and is kept in secret. Another set of keys is public and provided to the recipient of the encrypted message to do the decryption. The key generator uses two prime numbers from the drop down lists on the first tab (a note: I left ones and threes in the list of primes, but we cannot use them to generate the keys, the same prime numbers cannot be used either and and cause the exception if attempted to use). There is also a small "log" window on the first tab that provides some status information about execution of the program. 

The second tab allows to do encryption/decryption which should be stated by choosing the appropriate radio button on the left. If the checkbox at the right top corner is not chosen, the program uses the last generated set of keys (if keys has not been created it will cause a problem, of course). If checkbox is chosen, then the foreign keys need to be typed to the corresponding textfields underneath the checkbox (in case if keys are given by the encryptor and we want to decrypt the message, for example). There is also a field to type in a message to be encrypted/decrypted or text file with the message can be opened and a text message from a file will appear at the text window. After hitting the "Encrypt/Decrypt" button, the encrypted/decrypted message will appear in the text window below, and it can be saved to the file as an option. The encrypted message is given in format "[..., ..., ...]", the message to be decrypted needs to follow the format "symbol-comma-space-symbol-comma-space..." (I didn't elaborate the way how the input string should be split, so this pattern should be followed to avoid errors in the program execution). 

As a last notes, I want to add that I didn't handle exceptions in this project since the main purpose was to implement RSA algorithm and use GUI to juice it up a little bit. I tried to comment it as much as possible (not Javadoc comments though) to make it easier for understanding.
